---
layout: single
title: "Algorithm Efficiency Problem"
categories: Questions
toc: true
---

1. For each of the following functions, indicate how much the function’s value will change if its
argument is increased eightfold. Use either (i) the difference between, or (ii)the ratio of, f (8n) and f (n),
whichever is more convenient for getting a compact answer. Note that none of the answers depend on n.
(a) f (n) = lg n
(b) f (n) = 3√n
(c) f(n) = n
(d) f(n) = n^2
(e) f(n) = n^3
2. Consider a variation of sequential search that scans a list to return the number of occurrences
of a given search key in the list. Does its efficiency differ from the efficiency of classic sequential search?
Your answer should include three parts, one each for the Best Case, Average Case, and Worst Case time
efficiencies. Explain your answers.
3. Describe how to implement a constant-time operation on an unsorted list of size n that deletes
the ith element (0 ≤ i < n). Remember, the running time of this operation must be constant; in other
words the running time must not depend on the number of items in the list.
4. Algorithm Aperforms 966n^2 basic operations, and algorithm B performs 24n^3 basic operations.
For what value of n does algorithm A start to show its better performance?
5. There are two algorithms called Algo1 and Algo^2. For an input size of n, Algo1 runs in n^3
microseconds and Algo2 runs in 200n log n microseconds. Algo1 can be implemented using 6 hours of
programmer time and 7 minutes of CPU time. On the other hand, Algo2 requires 22 hours of programmer
time and 12 minutes of CPU time to implement. If programmers are paid $25 per hour and CPU time
costs $60 per minute, how many times must a problem of size n = 600 be solved using Algo2 to justify its
development cost?